Request for proposal by Cole Zwiep 7/23/2026
1.	Organization and Project Background
Hello, Cole Zwiep from MITTMorden is currently requesting a proposal for a new wireless network. The MITTMorden organization is made for education in information technology and is made for young people around the Morden/Winkler area to study the core concepts of technology including cloud management, Cisco networking, Microsoft messaging, server management, and cybersecurity. MITTMorden is a small organization currently having 17 students and 5 instructors totaling 22 users in total each using one laptop with Wi-Fi access. A new wireless network is required because the previous network has been having security concerns and very slow performance impacting the speed and quality of the lessons and projects for both our students and our instructors. MITTMorden is also planning an expansion in the future which will require a wireless network capable of expansion. MITTMorden is currently dealing with a very slow connection to the internet and the inability to update our security setting with the outdated network. 
2.	Project Objectives
We must provide reliable wireless internet access and coverage to all of our students and instructors at the same time without impacting the speed or performance of any one user. We need to improve the performance and capacity of the current device configurations so that our students may perform assignments in the quickest time possible. We must strengthen our security to make sure no students, instructors, or outside forces access files or internal information they do not have access to. MITTMorden will need to centralize the monitoring and management within the company to improve the quality and integrity of the data and while maintaining a low cost and reduce security risks on the network.  As MITTMorden is expanding we will need to have the support for expanding the network and scaling more devices in the future including physical switches, routers, and servers for our current and future students. 
3.	Scope of Work
The scope of the network must cover 22 laptops (1 per user), 6GHz of bandwidth for quick data throughput and low congestion, and be able to transport signal effectively in a 20’X75’ single room building constructed using plywood and drywall. There should be no coverage gaps once the new wireless network is set up. The access point must cover all 1500 square feet of our building and reliably handle 22 concurrent users. Only one channel is required as there will be only one access point. The router must be placed in a central elevated location away from interfering electronics. The modem must be connected to the router and the ISP outlet. The IP address scheme must be configured on the new router and switch using the newly create network address and all devices within the organization must use the same address range in order to improve device connection to the internet and to each other. The security must be updated to WPA3 and networking firewalls must be configured to prevent outside devices from accessing the network. All work must be tested and evaluated by technicians throughout the implementation process in order to ensure it meets the performance requirements before our students connect to the network. Technicians must verify that that POE ports deliver enough wattage for the access point, all ethernet port connections in use are functioning at a high speed, and that the server can assign IP addresses effectively and resolve domains quickly. A post deployment survey should be performed to visualize interference, coverage, and dead zones using a heatmap. Devices should test for data loss and jitter in order to make sure device communication is quick and effective. All configurations of the network, devices, cable infrastructure, and policy’s must be properly documented by the assigned technicians to provide a foundation for future management, scaling, and troubleshooting performed by an IT technician in the future. Ongoing attendance and support services are required to ensure high speed reliable coverage and proper security of the network as we gain new students and expand the network in the future. 
4.	Technical Requirements
MITTMorden’s network must be set on WI-FI 6 or higher to provide fast speed and long battery life for connected hardware devices. WPA3 is mandatory and must be set as the WI-FI security to protect against brute force password guessing, provide encryption on public networks, and individualize the privacy of data for each connected device. Guest network isolation is preferred to be configured as it will block guests from communicating with the files of our company’s users. A VLAN is preferred to be integrated as it will block unauthorized access, reduce congestion, and simplify the administration of the network. Scalability support is preferring as MITTMorden is considering an expansion of our organization. Support for 22 users is mandatory as we currently have 22 users within the organization. MITTMorden would also prefer to have an IT monitoring system to track the health, performance, and security of network devices. 
5.	Deliverables
Technicians working on the network must provide a site survey report to MITTMorden to identify existing conditions, map boundaries, assess feasibility of the project, and mitigate risks before network infrastructure is installed. Wireless network design must be delivered to map a seamless, secure, and reliable network. A network diagram must be delivered to provide future technicians the topology of the network for troubleshooting and proper system performance. All test results, including failed tests, must be documented to identify potential issues with the performance of the network or hardware. An administration guide must be provided to MITTMorden so future administrators can have a guideline to manage and maintain the status of the network. Support plans must be delivered in order to provide an outline on how technical issues and security will be managed. 
6.	Timeline and Pricing
Proposal deadline	August 12th
Vendor selection date	August 13th
Project start date	August 14th
Installation and testing period	August 14th to October 4th
Project completion date	October 4th
Initial and ongoing cost	$4,500 initial, $100 per month ongoing

7.	Evaluation Criteria
Technical solution	40%
Security 	25%
Implementation plan 	10%
Vendor experience	15%
pricing	10%

8.	Submission and Terms
All submissions must be sent to MITTMorden@fakemail.com and must include an introduction, summary, scope, timeline, pricing, and contact information. Late submissions will be discarded without review. All submissions will be kept private and will not be shared with anyone outside of MITTMorden and the vendor. We at MITTMorden expect vendors to provide a clear and transparent overview of scoping, implementation, and pricing compliant with the deadline. The contract will be from August 14th until October 4th. No exceptions for late or incomplete submissions will b allowed. 
